>> Kadi Kraman: When we're creating
pressable elements in React Native,
we often reach for a touchable opacity.
I think this is a guilty pleasure
of many a React Native developer,
where we use touchable opacity, but when
we know that actually we should be using
this new pressable component instead,
the touchable opacity is so convenience.
So why would you use pressable?
And then define it ourselves.
So we're going to actually create
a beautiful custom button using some
of the functionalities of the Pressable
component, which is an example of what you
can do, with pressable that you couldn't,
with touchable capacity.
So let's start by creating a components
folder at our rooted project.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
let's create a file called plantly button.
>> Kadi Kraman: And this is actually
a convention again that I personally
like to do.
So when I have a new project and
oftentimes we have a button component
that's specific to that project,
so might have different states.
And I tend to call it like project
name button or client name button or
something like that.
And the reason for that is I find the
importing easier because if we just call
it button, then you have lots of
competition in five competitions.
So this is just a convention.
To start with,
let's copy this plantly button here.
This will just create
a pressable with some styles.
And let's actually also use it
straight away in our okay yeah.
So I'll just tell the props so we have
a title prop and a non-press prop, and
we're just rendering
a pressable with a text inside.
And I have this onboarding page open.
So let's also use it in on boarding.
So instead of button,
let's call it plantly button.
So we use the same props here,
which is handy,
and same for our profile route.
Let's rename this plantly button.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay so styling wise, I've
used the green color that we had before,
added some padding horizontally,
vertically, and
used my favorite border radius, 6.
And because we have a dark brown
frack I used there a white text.
Now the first thing we want to
do is have some haptic feedback.
So whenever you press the button,
we want the phone to vibrate a little bit.
So for that,
let's install expo haptics so we'll need.
>> Kadi Kraman: NPX,
expo-install, expo-haptics.
>> Speaker 2: Does your computer
vibrate in the emulator?
>> Kadi Kraman: Unfortunately, it does
not so, haptics only work on phones.
They actually don't work
on the web as well.
So because we have added web support
we'll need to add a condition
not to call the haptics on the web
because that will cause an error.
So let's import import star
as haptics from expo-haptics.
>> Kadi Kraman: And then this onPress,
let's pull this out to
a constant function.
So we'll do const handlePress.
>> Kadi Kraman: And we're we want
this to call on press of course so
keep the existing functionality.
But let's also do haptics impact async and
let's just do a light haptic feedback.
So haptics impact feedback style.
And there's a couple that you can choose
for, but if we're putting it on our main
button, we probably don't want it to be
pretty intense so just do a light one.
And like I said,
this doesn't work on the web.
So we should add,
because we have added web support,
we should also add handling for
like to emit this on the web.
So we can use the platform
form React Native and
we'll do if the platform OS is web,
is not web, so it's around.
And if we're not on the web,
then we're going to do the haptic
feedback otherwise, we just carry on.
>> Speaker 3: Their performance hits
with using haptics within mobile phones,
it says async, so I'm assuming it
pulls it out of like the rendering,
it's not blocking.
But is there a time when you
wouldn't use it because it might.
>> Kadi Kraman: I think I'm pretty sure
on some phones the haptic feedback
automatically gets stopped.
I think on Android,
it gets stopped if you're low on battery.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Kadi Kraman: So I think there's
handling of it in your operating
system level.
But for you as a developer, you probably
want to just not go crazy cuz if every
single thing you do creates
app-to-feedback in your app,
users are gonna be annoyed.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah
>> Kadi Kraman: And
the last thing you wanna do is so
with touchable opacity,
when we press the button,
then we'll get some opacity change.
So opacity will change from like 1 to 0.8.
I think by default it's probably 0.6 or
0.5 anyway.
So something that you
can't do is go darker.
So let's do that so
I've chosen another beautiful green color,
which is here in the theme file.
So this is leafy green so let's open our
theme file and then add the screen color.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
let's add a style here for buttonPressed.
this will have a background color
of theme.colorleafygreen.
Right, so for pressable, for the styles,
cool that we can pass in a style object or
a style array, but in case of a pressable,
we can also pass in a function.
So here you can do a function and
return my default styles.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
why would you do a function?
In this function, you get access to
the current state of the button.
So in particular,
you can know if the button is pressed.
So for this reason what we can do
is if the button is currently being
pressed,
>> Kadi Kraman: Then we can
return an array of styles.
So return our button style, but then
it will also return the button pressed
style.
>> Speaker 4: Does the order
matter in the array?
>> Kadi Kraman: Yes, it does, yeah so the
letter style will override the former one.
So in button,
we do have a background color.
And then because we are adding button
pressed next, then this will overwrite.
So now if I press this button,
you can see that While it's being pressed,
it actually goes darker.
So you can do a bunch of things here.
A really common thing to do is you can
use reanimated to animate this button.
So you can do that when you're pressing
it, it like scales down, for example.
So you can do that with
like on press in and
on press alt and
using very high to be animated.
I do have an example of that, if you look
at the source code of the React Conf app.
So, I think the icon buttons and also
the bookmark items are using pressable and
are using this method
to animate the buttons.